whether it makes it legal illegal what makes it
right or wrong is whether you win or lose you know
this country hasn't settled anything since world
war ii and you can never and i say never and i mean
never you can never settle any political
confrontation by political means when that first
bullet has been fired you cannot settle it
politically You have to go in there and finish it.
And whoever wins, they're the ones that's right.
They had the biggest dig. They won. We settled the
Pacific Front with Japan. It was settled. Y'all
lost, and we won. We settled the European Front.
Germany, y'all lost, and we won. There wasn't any
negotiations. It's not, we'll sign if you give us.
It was unconditional surrender. It was settled.
It was finished. It was over with. Vietnam has
been, I've been here 20 years, back 20 years. It's
still not settled. It's not going to be settled. It
will never be settled, ever. It will not be
settled. It cannot be settled politically. It can
only be settled by force.
When we're talking about the South Vietnamese
Army, did you ever feel that they had a real desire
to be fighting the North Vietnamese? No. I think
they were just doing what they had. They were kind
of caught between a rock and a hard place, too. You
know, they didn't want to leave their families. If
you don't leave, you know, what do you got to do?
What do you got to fight? So they just would go visit
when they wanted, come back and fight when they
wanted? Yeah. I mean, they suffered for it when
they got back, you know. I mean, they were beaten,
thrown in prison, thrown in stockades, thrown in,
I've seen lots of things happen to them, you know,
personally. It's just that, but if you didn't go
home, I mean, when would you go home? When you came
back here from Vietnam, what was life like? Was it
hard for you to adjust back to these surroundings
as a civilian? Did you have flashbacks from over
there? No, I haven't ever had any flashbacks. I
don't know if it's because I was a little older when
I went over there. Most of those kids were 18, 19, 20
years old. Well, crud, that's just a baby. I had my
25th birthday sitting on top of my tank, you know,
in effect. So I was, you know, mid-twenties. And
maybe those few extra years gave me a little bit
more time emotionally to mature out or whatever.
But I've seen little red-headed freckle-faced
kids hop off a chopper, you know, wouldn't hurt a
fly, never hurt a fly. He's there, you know, serve
his country. And, you know, it's still not real to
him. But the first firefight that you get into it,
if you survive, What happens is you basically turn
into a real cold, hard animal. And there again,
that's hard to explain to somebody
that hadn't done that. And it's kind of like you
have a hard time, even your World War II veterans
and Korean veterans. They don't really
understand the Vietnam veteran mindset. They
don't understand why most of the Vietnam veterans
don't join the VFW. They don't join the American
Legion. And these World War II times have done a lot
of outreaching to those people, and it's met with
little success. Why is it that they don't? I don't
know for sure, but I think part of it might be if
you'll talk to a Vietnam, I mean a World War II
veteran, he was with H Company of the Fourth Army or
something like that. And they went over there.
They trained as a unit. They went over there as a
unit. They stayed there for the duration as a unit.
Everyone knew everyone. If you'll look in the San
Antonio paper, you'll see that the 318th Bomb
Squadron is having its 40th reunion this year or
something like that. And all these different
units have all these reunions. They're still
having reunions. They have them all the time. They
meet in Hawaii. They meet in Phoenix. They meet in
San Antonio. They'll meet in Miami. And they had
this closeness that they were all there together.
Vietnam wasn't like that. You didn't know
anybody. Because everybody was always coming and
going. You know, all these people that were in and
out all the time. I don't know anybody. You know,
and I certainly don't have anything in common with
the World War II times, you know. And even though
I've shown my little movies and stuff like that for
some VFW and some American Legion, I've shown
those, you know.
But, you know. There wasn't that. There was not
that closeness where you really got to know
everybody and you did something for four years
together. Because you were being transferred,
going and joining other... Yeah. I mean, like for
me, I was in four, you might say four different
units, you know, with people coming and going all
the time. I can see that. So you really, I mean, it's
just a bunch of strangers, you know. Yet you might
come back to your hometown... and you might know
somebody who was there and you have a little
comradeship there. You had something in common
with this person and that person. But to answer
your question, I don't have any flashbacks. I
think about it a lot.
When I came back, I came back to Lubbock, Texas,
which was basically a very conservative, very
patriotic area of the country. you know, I got all
this baby killer, why did you go over there, you
know, you're the one that's wrong, you know, I
didn't get any, you know, when Johnny come
marching home again type, there was no parades,
there was no, you know, anything like that. I had
one thing on a positive nature really that, and
that happened in Kerrville, Texas in 1986 when I
first came to Kerrville. I had a girl that I just
happened to mention that I was in Vietnam. And she
just put her arm around me and hugged me and said,
thank you. I just met her. That's the only person
that's ever said, you might say, to me, anything
positive.
And that was many, many years after? Yeah. But it's
not that there are not a lot of people out there that
don't feel that way. you just had one person, you
know. And not that I'm looking for it, I just kind of
think that, you know, probably had it not
happened, I wouldn't think anything about it, but
because it did, I do think something about it.
Um, your views, have they changed since the end of
the war, and how do you view the war? Do you view it
the same way? Yeah, I think I do. I wouldn't mind
going back to Vietnam. But the only way I would go to
Vietnam or any other Vietnam-like place, whether
it's Nicaragua or someplace like that, the only
basis I would go down there on would be that you
leave me alone. You want me to do a job, I'll do it.
But I ain't going to stop. And you're not going to
stop me. Have an unconditional. Have an
unconditional. If you want to go down there, hey,
guys, we need your help, fine. I'll be the first one
on the ship. But you're not going to tell me don't
shoot in a banana plantation. Don't shoot in a
rubber plantation, because you're going to
damage a plant. I ain't going to play that kind of
stuff again. So tell me in general how the American
soldiers felt about these situations. Well, of
course, I guess everybody has their own little
personal observation on it. Another thing that
really, really irritated me about most of the
Vietnam movies that I've seen, especially
Platoon, it perpetrated to me the American
soldier as a very negative type person. I told you
I've spoken at probably 200 different little
organizations over the years, and I have found,
and part of my little speech that I give is that you
can be proud of the way the American fighting man
conducted himself out in the field. Because what I
observed was he did it on as gentlemanly a basis as
you could expect. And I personally was proud of the
way the American conducted himself. But yet you
have the news media in Hollywood perpetrates an
entirely different picture and how many people
get to listen to Mike Sullivan? Not very many.
That's because when these people on television
know what sells money. That's right. And they have
a personal axe to grind to, and I wish there was no
wars in the world, and I wish there was no diseases
out there, too. But there is, and you can't just
play ostrich and bury your head in the sand and play
like it's not happening. And I think we do that as a
nation, you know, These same people, though, I'm
talking about your Kennedys, your Jane Fondas,
those kind of people, who get up there and say, oh,
let's don't get in a war. And nobody likes war. And
especially, you know, the military don't like it
because they're the guys out doing it. So they
really don't like it. But yet I think most people
really realize that America didn't just happen
and there has been some blood spilt. and that we
today are deriving the benefits from that past
sacrifice and people forget about that and these
thinking politicians are selling those basic
freedoms and rights away every day little by
little they're sitting there and they're just
duck nibbling you every day you lose a little bit
more and because Well, there's no sense in getting
upset about it. It's not that big of a deal. This is
like giving a nice example. That, to me, is like two
days ago, and I found that kid down in Mexico. And I
personally, it really bothered me. I mean, I woke
up at night, and it was 4 o'clock in the morning. I
couldn't go to sleep just thinking about that and
disgusted here at the bank. I got more upset about
it. But yet now, another day's gone by, and it's not
as upsetting to me. So, you know, we'll just forget
about it. No sense rounding up an army and going out
there and buying the suckers. So you forget about
that. You forget about lots of things like that.
Well, that really irritates me. And I think
another nice deal that's happening right now,
it's happening right this very minute, is Exxon
makes a mistake. And the price of the gasoline
pumps already got up 20 cents a gallon. I heard this
morning that President Texaco said it's going to
go up at least another 25 cents a gallon. And what?
The price of oil hadn't gone up. And they're going
to have a 50% increase in price and no price in crude
going up? The same old deal is the American
taxpayers getting screwed. The American working
slobs out there paying for somebody else's
mistakes. Whether it's big corporations or big
government, we're still going to pay for their
mistakes. See, they're not responsible for
anything. And that's a big problem in America is
our government technically makes nobody
responsible for anything. And those are your
liberties that are getting eaten away with
because you've got these crime figures that are
out there taking things away from you and nothing
happens to them. You know what I'm talking about.
And even if you caught them, what would happen to
them? And what do you think is going to happen to
them if they catch the sucker? You think they'll be
shot? Do you? Yeah, do you think I'd be shot?
That's right. If they even make it there, if
they've got room for them. And see, that's just a
common belief because you know that's what
happens. You hear about justice, but America
doesn't really want justice. If they wanted
justice, all they have to do is just put it in a
computer. Did you do this? Yes? No. Push the
button. Guilty? No. or not guilty, that's the way
to come out. So if we wanted true justice, it'd be
real cheap, real fast, and just push a button, and
everybody would get justice. You either did it or
you didn't do it. There's no gray. You're not just a
little bit pregnant. You're either you are or
you're not. You've never known anybody just a
little bit pregnant, have you? Just a smidge, just
kind of a little, you know, it doesn't happen, does
it? What do you think Saigon felt? Why? Do I think it
fell? We talked about the government being
corrupt. Well, I mean, Saigon is like the
Washington. That's their capital. When you take
over the capital, you've made a statement. Like if
the communists come in and take over New York City
or Washington, D.C., they've made a statement.
They don't have to take care of Kerrville. And it
fell 15 months after we pulled out. How did you feel
when you heard that? We were pouring out, and all
those men were coming. Well, I'll tell you what.
I'll make a statement that I told my wife. In fact, I
told her, I said, well, let me tell you what's going
to happen. They're going to come in from Cambodia,
because I knew where everybody was. And I said,
they're going to go this way, and they're going to
go that way. And without exception, I called every
single town, every single item, as it happened by
the day. And I did it beforehand. You know, to my
wife. I said, this is what you hide and watch as if it
don't happen. And I mean, it happened just like I
had a crystal ball. Because as I told you before,
war really is a very simple deal. And when the
opposition leaves, buddy, you just take the path
of least resistance, you know.
Well, by talking to you, I can tell that you're
proud of what you did because you did what you were
supposed to do. And you probably could have done it
better if the politicians hadn't interfered. Do
you believe that right? I think that's exactly
right. I'll tell you something else. I'm not
trying to beat my own tom-tom there a little bit,
but I want to tell you something that I felt very
strongly about. before I went over there, and one
of them is I really cared, you know, and the eight
months that I was actually in the field, you know,
either commanding a tank platoon or commanding
some infantry type unit, you know how many
Americans I got killed that was underneath my
command? Zero. And that was in 68 and 69, the fun
time, okay? Now, maybe a little bit of it was due to
my being a tactical genius right but maybe more of
it and probably a little bit more realistically I
think what it really had to do with is a term that has
come out of the Vietnam War is a deal called body
count you know and what happens you know some real
smart guy from Harvard or someplace like that
makes some little statements you know like
If you can't manage it, or if you can't count it,
then you can't manage it. If you can't control what
the numbers are, you don't know if you're winning
or losing. It's like cost accounting. You kind of
got to know. So if you can't measure it, you can't
manage it. That's kind of a catchy little saying
that a lot of business people use. I think that got
involved in Vietnam.
somebody said we couldn't, you know, this back,
you know, they're over there, really, they were
over there in 63, you know, and nobody thought too
much about it, you know, then things started
happening, you know, a little bit more
aggressively, like in 65, and started building
up, and then things got a little hotter, you know,
and then everybody started asking the question,
well, how do you know if you're winning, you know,
so in general, ask somebody, how do we know if we're
winning, And the general says, well, we're
killing more of them than they're killing us. And
we're destroying more than they're destroying.
And therefore, we're winning. And somebody says,
how do you know? So the general says, how do we know?
Well, we don't really know for sure. And then
somebody, his advisor says, why don't we start
counting? That's a good idea. So that's where this
body count came from. The word comes down now that
we're interested in how many people you killed
today. You know, like, let's keep score. And so you
kept score. Well, what happened then, especially
with, and I'm going to say West Point people,
because they are career people, and they're the
ones that are in the Pentagon. They come up with
these catchy little things. And they're the ones
that basically are your career type people, not
that others aren't. And I really would have liked
to have stayed in the military. I did a good job, and
I liked the Army. But had it not been for all the
politics and stuff that I saw, especially with the
West Point officers and that ring knocking, you
know, let you know. They'd take their little West
Point ring, and then, you know, if you start
questioning this and that, they'd sit there.
knock on, it's called a ring knocker, and they're
letting you know, by gosh, I'm from West Point, I
know, I make the decision, you have nothing to say
about anything, you know, and that's where the
term ring knocker comes from, because they're all
real good about doing that, you know, let you know
I'm West Point. Well, I'll tell you what, there's
very few officers that have people under their
command that, like I did, that can quote the kind of
letters that I didn't write home, you know,
Because I saw people get people killed for no
reason. And because I really cared about your
brother, your husband, your father, I wasn't
going to unnecessarily risk their lives just in
order to get some more body count or do this. Now, I
will also say that I accomplished every mission
that I was given without exception. Tell me to go
over and do this, I did it. But anybody killed.
That's what people wanted, but really not even
real
bad. What I'd call real bad, where you're going to
get real, you know. So I was, and I'm fortunate, and
I thank the Lord for that, that I didn't write those
letters. But I'll tell you what, I worked at it too.
I didn't want to write in those letters. Because
I'll tell you, if I had, to have written a bunch of
those letters. I guarantee you I probably
wouldn't, I would have had some flashbacks or how I
could have done that better or that, you know, I
felt real guilty or bad about that. Well, I'm sure
that your man was speaking to you and looked up more
to you because they could see that you cared about
them and they probably tried harder. Did you see
that? Well, no, not necessarily. I think
everybody wasn't really concerned about that or
knew one way or the other. They were just doing
their thing. Mm-hmm. You know, they did what they
were told. It's just that I just had, you might say,
a more conservative way of going about doing
things is all. But I still got the job done. It may
have been a little slower sometimes. You know, I
may not have, you know, gone by somebody's
stopwatch on me, you know. But I got the job done
properly. If you had a message to college students
today to try to clear up the misconceptions that
they have about this war, What would you say to
them? Don't believe what you read in the history
books. Because most of it was written by people who
weren't there.
What would you tell them to go talk to action? I
don't know how many people they could effectively
talk to. Because you talk to me and you're getting
just my version of it. I may be the only crazy one out
there, you know. And I may be 100% wrong. You should
probably read books on people that were there that
fought, such as Caputo and Raymond O'Rourke. Did
you see that? No, I haven't read anything. Really,
to tell you the truth, I don't read anything about
Lincoln. I'll tell you the truth. And the only
reason I've seen those movies, I did want to go see
the platoon because I heard so much about it, and it
was written and directed by a guy who was a platoon
leader. So I felt like it would be authentic. He did
a lot of great things in there, in my opinion. One
thing that he portrayed very well in the movie was I
saw fear on people's faces. I mean, like they were
just terrified, and I thought that was very real.
You know, especially in those night actions where
he saw people. Did you see it with him? I didn't see
it with him. You ought to go see it. You ought to go
see it because It says something, but I thought it
was authentic. I thought the decor of everything,
the vegetation, the equipment, I thought it was
authentic. But I would just caution, not just
Vietnam, because it's going to be like the Civil
War and every other war. No one's going to really
know what we were really doing over there. Because
there's so many of the big players, the world
players, like the Rockefellers, who have huge
financial interests. When I talk about Exxon, I'm
talking about Rockefeller. When I talk about
Gulf, I'm talking about Rockefeller. And they do
things for business reasons. And they get
themselves in a jam, and they start hollering for
our politicians to do something. I
guess.